Understanding the equipment flashing the BCM
Safety first:
When working in the shop,
always follow the safety guidelines
provided in service information,
tool operation manuals,
and other technical literature.
To protect yourself from injury,
wear personal protective equipment (PPE),
dress appropriately, work professionally,
and correctly handle tools and equipment.
Flashing or programming means to update
the software in a module.
Programming is similar to applying software
updates on a computer or a gaming console.
A module may need flashed to update
the software.
This is common to fix software-related issues
that arise over time.
When a new module is installed,
it has to be programmed.
Most vehicles program the VIN into the module,
which can only be done once.
This prevents removing the module and
reinstalling it into a different vehicle.
To flash a BCM, a factory-level scan tool
or a pass-through device
is needed to connect the vehicle.
A subscription to the vehicle manufacturer’s
service information or programming system
is also required.
Many aftermarket companies sell
programming tools called pass-through devices.
These devices must meet the SAE J2534
standard for programming.
This allow you to connect to the vehicle and
program modules
but a subscription to the factory service
information is still required.
It is essential that the pass-through device
or scan tool is equipped with the latest software
before performing service programming.
Read and follow ALL precautions and
procedures when programming a module.
Failure to follow the directions can result
in a programming failure and a useless module.
Stable battery voltage
is critical during programming
Any fluctuation, spiking,
over voltage,
or loss of voltage will interrupt programming.
If the recommended battery tool is not available,
DO NOT connect a battery charger,
Insted
connect a fully charged 12 V jumper or
booster pack disconnected from the
AC voltage supply.
Enter the simulation to practice flashing a BCM.